From
the New York Times, I'm Natalie
This is The Daily.
It's been one of the world's biggest
mysteries and best-kept secrets. Who is
the inventor of Bitcoin?
This is a person who's been known only
by an alias, Satoshi [music] Nakamoto.
And despite many attempts to unmask him,
he's remained anonymous for 17 years,
even as his creation spawned a whole
system of cryptocurrency, [music]
revolutionized finance, and minted a
powerful new class of billionaires,
including Satoshi himself.
Today, we talk to our colleague, John
Carreyrou, who says he thinks he found
Satoshi.
And then, [music] we talk directly to
that person.
>> [music]
>> It's Thursday, April 9th.
Hi, John. Welcome to the studio. Thanks
for having me.
John, you've just finished this truly
extraordinary investigation, and I am
obsessed with it. I can't stop thinking
about it. It is incredible. Thank you.
So,
I want to start with a really basic
question. What percent convinced are you
that you have identified Satoshi
Nakamoto?
Somewhere between 99.5%
and 100%. Okay, that's pretty good.
So,
say why that matters. The inventor of
Bitcoin, known as Satoshi Nakamoto, has
been unmasked after all these years.
Well, I think Bitcoin, it's fair to say,
is one of the greatest financial
innovations of the past few decades.
It's created this new currency. It's
made the concept of a decentralized
currency on the internet that is
available all over the world that can
bypass governments and banks possible.
It's spawned a $2.4 trillion industry.
Wow. And I think it's in the public
interest to know who is behind this.
Who is this person who has upended our
financial landscape? What was motivating
him? What caused him to create this
decentralized electronic currency?
I want to know.
And just talk about Satoshi, the alias
of the founder of Bitcoin, and the long
history of these efforts to identify who
he is. Satoshi Nakamoto appeared on the
internet in late 2008 when he announced
his white paper, which is this nine-page
academic-like document that outlines how
Bitcoin works.
He then stuck around for 2 and 1/2 years
under that pseudonym
to improve upon the software and perfect
it with a group of early adopters, and
then suddenly
in April of 2011, he disappeared.
Who is Satoshi Nakamoto? And shortly
thereafter, efforts began to figure out
who he was.
The so-called founder, Satoshi Nakamoto.
>> behind The Ben Bernanke of Bitcoin.
>> No one actually knows who that is,
whether it's a man or a woman, or even a
group of people. Who is Satoshi? People
have spent, not just journalists, but
academics, internet sleuths have spent
the past 17 years trying to unmask
[music] this guy. We know that the real
Satoshi Nakamoto doesn't want to be
found. So, if he is
And no one had succeeded.
What made you decide to pick this up and
spend a year plus on this?
I've been fascinated with this for a
long time, for probably more than a
decade.
And then, in early 2022,
I decided to try my hand at solving the
mystery, and I started researching a
book about it for several months,
realized pretty quickly that I was out
of my depth,
>> Hmm. and gave up. And then, two years
later, in the fall 2024,
something happened that reignited my
interest. Which was?
Well,
>> [music]
>> I was sitting in the car with my wife in
traffic on the Long Island Expressway,
and I always play this jazz funk station
in the car, [music] Hmm. and uh she got
annoyed and tired of it.
And she turned on this podcast that we
both like.
Well, Casey, this week we are talking
about one of the greatest mysteries of
the last 20 years on the internet.
>> Which happens to be a New York Times
The popular tech show, Hard Fork.
>> we got a new potential Satoshi Nakamoto.
There's a new
>> And I was immediately riveted because
the hosts were discussing a new HBO
documentary that claimed to have
unmasked Bitcoin's creator, Satoshi
Nakamoto.
We drove home. As soon as we got in,
I logged into the HBO Max app
and pressed play and watched it. With
Bitcoin being woven into the fabric of
the financial system, affecting
everyone,
perhaps the question of Satoshi's
identity was more pressing than ever.
>> [music]
>> In the end, I wasn't convinced by the
film's conclusion. They uh singled out a
young Canadian software developer named
Peter Todd, and I felt like their
evidence was too thin to justify, you
know, asserting that they'd solved the
mystery. Still worth watching? Yeah,
absolutely. It's an entertaining romp
through the world of crypto. But what
really caught my attention was a scene
in the middle. It features Adam Back,
this British cryptographer, who is
actually a pretty influential person in
the Bitcoin community.
He's got this mini empire of
Bitcoin-related companies.
And uh he's sitting on a bench
in Riga, Latvia, next to the filmmaker,
whose name is Cullen Hoback.
Do you think it'll ever be known who
Satoshi is?
I don't think so, no. I mean, just just
because all of the people that have been
identified have various reasons,
believable reasons, why it's it's
probably not them.
>> [music]
>> And you know And Cullen starts
enumerating the big Satoshi suspects.
Nick Szabo's on the list, Hal Finney.
You're on the list, and And when he gets
to Adam Back's name,
you see Adam Back get very tense. His
eyes start darting all over the place.
His left hand gets all fidgety,
and he denies vociferously that he's
Satoshi. Well, I thought you might think
I'm Satoshi, and I don't want that to be
on the record, really.
>> [laughter]
>> I mean, you're on the list of suspects,
right? Yeah, yeah, but uh yeah. I was
interested for you personally to
understand that really, really, I'm not,
you know.
Yeah.
And I've come across a lot of liars in
my career, and to me, his behavior was a
tell. Just because of the body language?
>> language, yeah, absolutely.
So, normally, I might be very skeptical
of someone just saying, "Look, I know
how to spot a liar," but you, John, have
a very good track record on this matter,
and I think this is the moment at which
we should talk about your reporting
resume for the listening public. You
famously broke the story about how
Elizabeth Holmes' startup, Theranos, was
faking these blood tests that led to a
federal investigation, and then later,
her trial and imprisonment. In any case,
I assume that's what you mean when you
say you have your fair share of
experiences with liars. It is
uh she's not the only liar I've come
across in my career, but she she was a
pretty big one. Okay, so, you have this
hunch based on body language. What do
you do with it? Where does your inquiry
begin? So, the the thing with Satoshi is
that he was really good at hiding his
footprints on the internet. The upshot
is that there's not really any way to
track Satoshi.
And that leaves you with just his
writings, which are
the nine-page Bitcoin white paper, his
emails to a couple of internet mailing
lists,
and which are his emails to early
Bitcoin adopters. These are the things
that we know there is consensus he did
write and create. Yes, absolutely. He
There's no question that the real
Satoshi is behind these texts.
So, that gives you a little something to
work with, and I started reading it.
And it was difficult reading because I
didn't know anything about cryptography,
and I didn't know anything about
computer science,
and coding. And how many pages are we
talking here? Oh, we're talking about
many hundreds of pages. Wow. And then, I
got the idea, well, why don't I write
down words and expressions that Satoshi
uses
that jump out [music] to me as unusual.
And then, I thought, well, you [music]
know, there's been like a list of about
10 or 12 people that's been talked about
for years and comprised of the top
Satoshi candidates. Why don't I at least
take the names from this list and see if
any of these guys use these same phrases
or words as Satoshi.
I figured that the best way to do that
was to do an advanced Twitter search
because a lot of these top Satoshi
candidates [music] have Twitter
accounts. Okay.
Sure enough,
one of them used almost [music] every
single word and expression that I'd
jotted down in my notebook, and I'd
[music] jotted down more than 100.
And that person was?
Adam Back.
Your guy. Yep.
I got a shot of adrenaline when I
realized this. I felt like the hunch
that I'd had watching the HBO film was
you know, at the very least partially
founded and quickly reminded myself that
this didn't really prove anything, but I
felt like it was a lead.
And I asked myself if there was
something else I could compare Satoshi's
writings to.
And there was.
There these emails from this group, the
Cypherpunks, that Adam Back happens to
have belonged to in the 1990s. And what
exactly are Cypherpunks?
The Cypherpunks were this group of
techno-anarchists that was formed in the
early 90s
who believed in using cryptography
to ward off government surveillance and
censorship.
>> [snorts]
>> I would say they were libertarians on
steroids. Some of their ideas were
really, you know, at the limits of the
law and they sometimes met in person in
the Bay Area, but mostly they
communicated through something called an
internet mailing list which is
essentially big group email in old
typewriter font that you receive in your
inbox if you subscribe to it and you
reply all to when you want to
participate in the discussion.
And it's very likely that one of the
members of this community eventually
went on to take the alias of Satoshi
Nakamoto. Hm. Now, why was he thought to
be a member of this group?
Well, there are several indications that
Satoshi was one of the Cypherpunks. The
most obvious one is that he created
Bitcoin.
And the Cypherpunks' greatest obsession,
arguably, was the concept of electronic
cash.
Another reason is that Satoshi unveiled
Bitcoin and his white paper outlining
Bitcoin on the cryptography list
which is an offshoot of the Cypherpunks
mailing list. And the cryptography list
was a place that a lot of Cypherpunks
went to after the Cypherpunks list kind
of petered out. So, we know there's good
reason to think that Satoshi was in this
Cypherpunk community. We also know that
Adam Back, the guy you think is actually
Satoshi, is also in this community of
the Cypherpunks. But, how many other
members are there? Like, how big is this
universe? Well, in their heyday, there
were about 2,000 subscribers to the
Cypherpunks mailing list and you have to
somehow narrow that down. In this case,
I had what I felt was a pretty good
lead, Adam Back. And it turned out that
Adam Back was among the most prolific
and vocal Cypherpunks, so he wrote a lot
of posts on the list.
It made for some interesting reading and
I quickly began to see a lot of
parallels between what he wrote about
and what Satoshi wrote.
There are several posts in '97 where
Adam Back comes out and says on the list
in no uncertain terms that he's a
libertarian and that
he sees his crypto-anarchist mission as
bringing about a more libertarian
government. And that reminded me of
something that Satoshi had said as soon
after unveiling Bitcoin. He had said
something along the lines of, "It's very
attractive to the libertarian
viewpoint."
That was the first parallel.
>> [music]
>> There was the fact that Adam Back was
anti-copyright.
And that he was very worried by several
legal precedents. One of them was
the fact that Napster, the file-sharing
service, had been shut down after it had
been sued by the music industry.
And after that happened
he sent a post to the list saying that
he'd come to the conclusion that
basically anyone developing a
peer-to-peer software program
had to release it anonymously. Hm.
Otherwise, they'd get in trouble.
And that struck me as potentially
[music] a reason why Satoshi had
remained anonymous in releasing Bitcoin.
Another parallel was that they both
seemed to have this strange
preoccupation with spam. Spam? Uh Like
spam mail? Yeah, exactly. Like junk
mail. Spam was something that loomed
large in the life of Adam Back
because he in 1997 invented something
called Hashcash to combat spam. Okay. It
was a statistical [music]
puzzle-solving system
whereby if your computer was the first
to solve the puzzle, this mathematical
puzzle, then you would get issued a
permission [music] to email. In other
words, it was like paying for a postage
stamp. Okay. It only took a few seconds
for your computer to solve the problem.
It presented more of a problem for
spammers who were sending hundreds of
thousands of emails at once. That
tripped up spammers and that was the
point of Back's invention.
And now I noticed that
>> [music]
>> Adam Back and Satoshi both talked about
spam all the time.
Not only that, they discussed some of
the very same spam-related ideas.
I see there are many parallels, some of
them seemingly very significant,
between Adam Back and still not totally
convinced because
it seems like this was generally the way
all the Cypherpunks were thinking. No, I
mean, some of these things like the
libertarian thing is you can apply
generally to a lot of the the
Cypherpunks. There weren't many
Cypherpunks as obsessed with spam as
Adam Back. Right. But, I take your
point. These were more clues.
They're not enough
to prove that Satoshi is Adam Back.
But, I kept looking and reading the
Cypherpunks list and soon enough I came
across
these posts where Adam Back over the
course of 2 years, basically between
1997 and 1999
laid out in detail
virtually every single aspect of
Bitcoin. Hm. So, it was to create a
decentralized currency using
peer-to-peer software
where the payer and the payee would be
anonymous, just like they are in
Bitcoin.
>> Yep. It would have a publicly viewable
ledger.
It would use Hashcash as the way to mint
the coins.
And Satoshi had ended up borrowing
Hashcash and turning it into the method
by which new Bitcoins were minted.
>> Oh, wow. Yeah. What you're saying is
that basically, years before Bitcoin was
created, you see Adam Back laying out
the fundamental principles, the elements
that are core to it when it's eventually
created. Absolutely.
And there was one other really
interesting clue as I poured over these
archives.
I noticed that Adam Back disappeared
from the cryptography mailing list
before Satoshi posted his white paper
there.
And then he stayed away while Satoshi
was active.
So, it was like Batman and Bruce Wayne.
Whenever Bruce Wayne disappeared
Batman appeared.
The Bitcoin white paper was basically
the closest manifestation of the
electronic cash vision Adam Back had
laid out
on the Cypherpunks list a decade before.
And when it was unveiled
Adam Back was nowhere to be found.
I mean, don't you think that he would
have at least said something, commented
about it? Right. It stretches credulity
that this guy who's been talking about
exactly
this same thing
when it gets unveiled
is able.
And then
though he reappeared on the list before
Satoshi disappeared
he never addressed Bitcoin. He [music]
never talked about it until Satoshi
vanished.
And I thought that was very significant.
But I didn't think I was there yet. I
mean, this is a case that's been
unsolved for 17 years now. There have
been a bunch [music] of attempts to
unmask this guy. And I felt like I
needed to provide more definitive
evidence that I had the right man.
So, I decided to keep digging to provide
something that was almost
forensic.
>> [music]
[music]
>> We'll be right back.
Okay, John, this is sounding more and
more like a detective novel. What did it
mean to get more forensic evidence in
this case? How do you even do that?
It meant looking much more closely at
the way these two people wrote.
The way Satoshi wrote and the way Adam
Back wrote.
>> [snorts]
>> And as I did that, I began to notice
similarities in words and expressions
and phrases that they used.
>> Hm. For instance? So, there was this
cryptographic term that I noticed in
Satoshi's writing partial pre-image
which he wrote putting a hyphen between
pre and image.
>> Uh-huh. And [snorts] I went back to the
Cypherpunks and the cryptography mailing
list
and determined that over all the years
that those lists were live,
only two people had ever used that term,
Adam Back and Hal Finney,
who was another really important member
of the Cypherpunk community.
And actually many people have thought
over the years that he is Satoshi
Nakamoto.
>> Hmm. But there was one difference in the
way they used that term. Hal Finney did
not hyphenate pre-image, whereas Adam
Back did.
But John, how much do we really read
into this? Like who among us hasn't
screwed up a hyphen here and there, you
know? Except this is a term no one else
used amid this community of thousands of
cryptographers who were active bantering
on these lists for more than a decade,
no one else but these two guys used that
term
and one of them spelled it exactly the
same way Satoshi did.
And by the way, that hyphen in partial
pre-image, it wasn't the only weird
hyphen in Satoshi's uh corpus.
I actually found that Satoshi was very
bad at using hyphens. He was
pathologically incapable of using
hyphens correctly. You know who else was
hyphens correctly?
Adam Back. Hmm. And it wasn't just
hyphens, Satoshi had a habit of
confusing its
i t apostrophe s and its i t s. I mean,
who among us, but yes. And he sometimes
put also at the end of sentences.
Adam Back did the exact same thing.
There turned out to be a lot of
similarities.
And how significant
are those similarities? Like did you ask
someone? Did you try to get a sense of
how likely it is that any of that could
just be coincidence? So if you find one
instance of similarities, it's not
necessarily something you can hang your
hat on. It's not
enough on its own, but if you find a
bunch,
then it becomes more significant.
[music]
And I talked to a uh forensic expert at
Hofstra
who ended up [music] telling me that
what I had done,
the way I had homed in on certain words
and phrases that Satoshi uses, is
exactly [music] what he does Hmm. when
he's working on cases where he's trying
to identify a writer.
You have to be a real grammar expert to
crack [music] this case, it turns out.
Yeah, it turned out that grammar was a
key part of this investigation.
I also talked to an expert in this thing
called stylometry. What's [music] that?
That relies on basically the distance
between function words in someone's
prose. Function words are small words
like to and from and but to basically
establish a stylistic fingerprint.
[music]
And there was a guy in Paris, a French
expert named Florian Caffiero,
>> [music]
>> and I asked him to analyze
the Satoshi corpus and compare it
[music] with some of the top suspects.
Took about 6 weeks for him to get back
to me, so the suspense was kind of
mounting. And when he got back to me
finally,
he texted me to say that
the person who was the closest match
>> [music]
>> to Satoshi's white paper was Adam Back,
but he immediately added, "Back was
barely ahead of another person in the
pool of candidates, and that was Hal
Finney."
According to Florian, they were barely
distinguishable.
And as a result, he felt that his
analysis was inconclusive.
Yeah, how did that feel for you? Well,
it was definitely disappointing.
I'd spent, you know, many months
researching and reporting this story.
Right. And I'd felt so close, and now
solving the mystery seemed out of reach
again. Hmm. But I also felt by then like
I had a pretty good idea of what the
problem was. I knew for a fact that Adam
Back knew about stylometry
and knew how to
defeat it because he'd been writing back
in the '90s about how to defeat writing
analysis. So Adam Back knew how to cover
his tracks, you're saying. Right, so
that stylometry wouldn't catch him.
Interesting. And so with that in mind, I
pivoted to a new approach.
What I did is I wanted to find a more
systematic way
of analyzing Satoshi's writing and
comparing it to Cypherpunk's writing.
And [snorts] so I brought in a New York
Times colleague named Dylan Freedman,
who's a journalist and an engineer,
and who had experience with this sort of
thing. He knows how to use AI programs
and machine learning. And
Dylan and I as a team began collecting
the archives of these cryptography
mailing lists.
We merged them into one big database and
made it searchable so that we could then
compare Satoshi's corpus of writings
with it.
So you're basically taking the kinds of
analyses that you'd been doing by hand
and trying to feed them all into one
machine at once to see if the
associations that you'd been noticing
and picking up on actually did add up to
one conclusive result. That's right. I
wanted to establish that no one else but
Adam Back was doing these same things in
his writing that Satoshi was doing.
>> [snorts]
>> So we conducted three analyses. In one
of the analyses, we compiled all the
words that don't have synonyms that
Satoshi uses. And synonymless words tend
to be technical words, so that would
weed out common words that people use.
And then we ran those words against our
database and found that Adam Back, among
these thousands of other cryptographers,
was the one
who used those Satoshi words the most.
So that was one.
Then we drilled down on hyphenation,
and with the aid of an AI program, we
determined that Satoshi had made
more than 300
grammatical hyphenation errors.
And we found that Adam Back had the most
matches for these hyphenation errors.
He matched 67 of those separate
hyphenation errors. He was by far an
outlier. Okay, so the evidence is
mounting. Yeah, and then we ran an
analysis of these writing ticks that I'd
picked up on
in Satoshi's prose.
And basically, we applied a filter for
each of these Satoshi writing ticks
to see how many [music]
Cypherpunks displayed that writing tick,
so to speak.
The first one
was we looked for the people who
sometimes put [music] two spaces between
sentences like Satoshi did. And that
eliminated 58 people and left us with
562 suspects. [music]
Then we screened for posters who used
British spellings. That narrowed our
pool to 434.
>> [music]
>> Then we screened for posters who
sometimes confused its and its or vice
versa. Mhm. That narrowed our pool to
114.
>> [music]
>> Okay, getting closer. Yep. Then we
screened for those who sometimes
finished sentences with also. That
further shrank the field to 56.
Then we used [music] another series of
Satoshi ticks.
That brought us down to eight suspects.
Wow. [music] And then we did one last
round of filtering,
which was that Satoshi
alternated between
email without a hyphen and email with a
hyphen, between [music]
electronic cash spelled out and e-cash
abbreviated and hyphenated,
>> [music]
>> between the American check, c h e c k,
and the British check, c h e q u e.
And uh Satoshi also alternated between
[music] the British and American forms
of the word optimize.
He used a z sometimes and an s
other times. Mhm.
When we screened our remaining eight
for those who did the same things
[music] as Satoshi did,
we were down to just one person.
Adam Back.
Okay.
Wow.
I I feel much more sold at this point.
How are you feeling at this moment when
you see that, when there's just one who
makes it through the gauntlet, all those
filters?
I mean, that felt like pretty strong
evidence to me. Not necessarily just on
its own, but combined with everything
else
that I'd found, all the other clues and
pieces of evidence that I'd accumulated
over the course of a year,
I felt like, you know, this was kind of
the icing on the cake.
Okay, so you have your body of evidence.
You feel pretty good about it.
What's the move? So at that point, I
felt like I was ready to confront Adam
Back. The problem was he wouldn't
respond to me. I sent him several
emails, and it was radio silence. Hmm.
And so I figured the better way to go
about this was to try and intercept him
at one of these Bitcoin conferences that
he's always attending throughout the
year. And I [snorts] noticed that the
next one that was coming up was going to
be in late January in El Salvador.
So I packed my bags and I flew to San
Salvador at the end of January. And I
mean, what did you do when you got
there? You just went around looking for
Back to tell him, "Hey, by the way, I've
compiled a whole body of evidence that
suggests that you are in fact Satoshi
Nakamoto? Yeah, that's basically what I
did. I mean, I figured, well, maybe I
can find him in the speakers lounge.
So, I went over to the speakers lounge,
couldn't get in, and I posted myself not
far away, and just watched the door like
a hawk
hoping that Adam Back would come out of
there and that I could accost him. This
is a stakeout, basically. Yes.
So, my stakeout lasted about 30 minutes,
and then, sure enough, Adam Back came
out
with two colleagues, and I went up to
him, tapped him on the back, he turned
around, [music] and
he was a little flustered. He knew who I
was.
But, he was cordial, [music] and to my
surprise, he agreed
to meet me for an interview.
Let me just um I want to call up
something to use to show you my
research.
Um and I began laying out
piece by piece my evidence.
At one point, I pressed him hard on the
fact that there was no trace of him for
3 years on the cryptography list, and
that that coincided exactly with when
Satoshi was active. And so So, that's
what seems so fishy to me. Someone like
you who outlined
most aspects of Bitcoin 10 years before
Bitcoin was created, who
almost systematically chimed in when
there were e-cash discussions on both
lists.
When this white paper, which basically
makes your vision happen,
gets announced on the list, you're AWOL.
But, it doesn't it ultimately it doesn't
it doesn't prove anything. And I always
reassure you, like, it's really not me.
But, And as I started unspooling my
evidence,
his face began to redden, and he got
pretty agitated and defensive,
and he said something like, "Well, that
doesn't prove anything."
Um we did a hyphenation analysis, and
you came out as the top match. You had
67 exact matches to Satoshi hyphenation
errors, and you were a huge outlier. The
next guy had 38.
It's [snorts] not me, but I you know, I
I take what you're saying. This is what
the AI said with the data, but it's
still not me, so. So, he denied being
Satoshi something like uh half dozen
times or more during the interview,
but one of the denials was phrased in
what I thought was a very interesting
way. Well, I have to say, I mean, cuz
clearly I'm not Satoshi. Like, that's my
position, and it's true as well. I mean,
for what it's worth, but He said, "I'm
not Satoshi. That's my position."
"That's my position."
>> Yes.
>> What interesting phrasing. And I thought
to myself, yeah, well, that doesn't
sound like
a statement grounded in fact. It sounds
like a rhetorical argument.
>> Right. But, then he quickly caught
himself and said something like, "And it
happens to be true, by the way." Wow. If
there's anything that I haven't brought
up, I will definitely send it to you by
email.
So, the meeting ended on a cordial note.
We shook hands like two chess players
who'd just had a hard-fought match.
>> Hm.
And as I watched him walk away,
there was something that nagged at me,
because toward the end of the interview,
we had spent 2 hours together in his
hotel room conversing,
and toward the end of that 2 hours,
he had said something
that I felt certain had implied that he
was Satoshi. And in the moment, I
remember feeling a little jolt,
and looking up at him, but I couldn't
remember when it was in the interview.
It wasn't until a few days later when I
was back in New York listening to the
interview again
that I found that moment.
>> And what was it?
So, I I was bringing up
things that Satoshi had written that
were similar to things that Back had
written.
>> [snorts]
>> And I bring up the Satoshi quote.
There's a quote that I mentioned earlier
where Satoshi says,
"I'm better with code than with words."
I didn't know for talking there for
somebody I mean,
I mean, I'm not I'm not saying I'm good
with words, but I sure did a lot of
yakking on these lists actually.
But, before I had a chance to explain
why I was bringing it up, he interrupted
me.
And he said, "Well,"
something like, "For someone who's bad
with words, I sure did a lot of yakking
on these mailing lists."
And to me, it sounded like
he was saying,
"I wrote that quote." Right, he just
follows up on the Satoshi quote and
talks about himself. Exactly. I had made
crystal clear that I was quoting
Satoshi. I said, "This is a Satoshi
quote." And then I read the Satoshi
quote, and before I could explain why I
was bringing it up, he interjects. So, I
felt like he had slipped. I felt like
the mask had fallen for a few seconds,
and he had become Satoshi. I mean, that
that sounds like a slip-up, right? It's
hard to imagine feeling any other way
about it. Well, not according to him,
because of course, I emailed him about
it, and he emailed me back saying, "No,
it wasn't a slip. I was just responding
to the general observation that people
often make that technical people
are sometimes better with code than with
words."
And my reaction to that explanation was,
"What? I
I didn't I wasn't talking about a
general observation.
I was talking about a Satoshi quote, and
I suspect that Back knew that,
and that he was BSing me."
Okay.
In all this, what seems crystal clear is
that Back is committed to denying that
he's Satoshi. He's committed to pushing
back on your story. So, if he is in fact
Satoshi, why, John,
is he so
bent on keeping that a secret?
Well, that's a great question. I'd say
the biggest reason by far
is the fact that Satoshi mined 1.1
million Bitcoins in Bitcoin's early
days.
That's a fortune that at today's prices
is worth somewhere between 70 and 80
billion dollars. Woah. It would make him
one of the richest people in the world
if I'm right that Adam Back is Satoshi.
And if people know he's that rich, and
know that he holds that fortune in
crypto, as opposed to in a bank account,
then that could easily make him a target
of what's known in the industry as a
wrench attack.
These attacks are when people kidnap
people who who have a a lot of crypto
and extort them.
And there have been many in the past 2
years in Europe and the US, and so
there's real reason
for him to fear that. And the reason
that people who have their wealth in
crypto are targeted for these kinds of
attacks is because they alone hold the
keys to these accounts, unlike someone
who has their wealth in all sorts of
traditional vehicles. Right. If you're
Satoshi Nakamoto,
you just have a bunch of cryptographic
keys that hold
the keys to your fortune,
and anyone who kidnaps you can try to
extort those keys out of you.
And there's another reason he wouldn't
want to be unmasked, which is that right
now, he's in the process of taking one
of his Bitcoin companies public on the
Nasdaq stock market. Now, under US
securities law, when you are the CEO of
a public company,
you must disclose all
material information to your investors.
If Adam Back is Satoshi, and he's
sitting on 1.1 million Bitcoins,
then that could be considered material
information, because it means Yep. that
he's sitting on a huge trove of Bitcoins
that, if it were suddenly sold,
could crash the Bitcoin market. Right.
It's a lot of undisclosed wealth.
Absolutely.
There's also one more very fundamental
reason why Back wouldn't want to be
unmasked as Satoshi, which is
the ethos of Bitcoin. It's this
decentralized currency outside the
control of governments. It's this
collective software project that
hundreds of developers have been working
on for more than a decade.
Bitcoin belongs to every member of the
community. The community doesn't want a
leader. It doesn't want an authority
figure.
In fact, one of the favorite slogans of
the community is, "We are all Satoshi."
So, just thinking about that ethos, that
idea that the community has a vested
interest in understanding themselves as
the collective creators of this
cryptocurrency,
do you think that community is going to
believe you?
I think there's going to be a faction of
the community
that will not believe me, and that will
say,
"The only thing we'll believe The only
proof that we'll believe is when someone
moves
one or several or many of Satoshi's
coins,
or when someone signs
with a cryptographic key associated with
one of the wallets that holds these
coins.
As long as they don't have that
cryptographic proof, they're going to
say, 'It's not good enough.'"
There was an interesting moment in our
interview in El Salvador where
he said that what he thought would
happen
is that the coins wouldn't move until
Satoshi died
and left them to [music] his heirs. Wow.
>> And that then
the coins would be sold and that that
>> [music]
>> would be when the mystery would be
solved.
And when he said that it made me think,
so that's what you're planning.
>> [music]
>> Once John's story published, Adam Back's
[music] team reached out and asked if he
could come on The Daily to respond.
So, after the break, Adam Back.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Adam Back, welcome to The Daily. Thank
you so much for coming on the show. Of
course, thanks for having me on.
So, should I call you Adam or Mr. Back
or
>> Adam is fine.
>> Mr. Nakamoto?
It is what everybody's wondering. You
are here, of course, because my
colleague at The Times, John Carreyrou,
just published an investigation in which
he presents a giant body of evidence
gathered over more than a year that
points to you being the inventor of
Bitcoin, someone who has operated under
the alias Satoshi Nakamoto for 17 years.
So,
I'm just going to ask you point-blank,
are you Satoshi Nakamoto? No, I'm not. I
think, of course, it's a fascinating
topic as to who this person would be and
all of the
circumstantial evidence has been
analyzed [snorts] extensively by, you
know, many researchers. So, effectively,
I think what we're left with is sort of
speculative analysis and, of course,
looking at the historic writings, which
John does an interesting job of in the
article.
I mean, I think there is some sort of
inherent
selection
bias, if you like, in the sense that in
looking at who might be Satoshi, they
they're going to look for people with
overlapping interests, and I'm probably
as reasonable a candidate as any of the
other top 20 that, let's say, people
have looked at.
But, we don't have a reason to suppose
that Satoshi would be participating at
conferences,
participating in documentary films,
taking interviews, and that kind of
thing. And from that point of view,
it seems more plausible that Satoshi is
one of the many clever people who've
worked on internet technology, but don't
have really a public profile, for
example.
So, I think I want to bring John into
the conversation.
Hi, John. Hi. Can you hear me, Adam?
Yeah, all loud and clear.
Adam, I just want to set aside for a
second the question of whether you're
Satoshi and ask you, if Satoshi were
calling into this show today and I asked
him, are you Satoshi, do you think he
would say yes?
Um,
it's kind of hypothetical to me, right?
Because I'm not, but
I've I've seen a number of people in
interview settings being asked that
question and saying they wouldn't say or
something like that, right? Yeah, I
think that's the common answer and it
sounds logical to me. In other words,
the common answer would be that Satoshi
calling into this show wouldn't admit
that he's Satoshi. Well, I mean, I think
my assumption is Satoshi simply would
decline to participate or, you know, be
hard to identify even as a candidate to
try to contact to bring into an
interview.
So, I just want to get to some of the
specific pieces of evidence in John's
story that I found most convincing, just
as a lay reader here.
One of the things that really struck me
was this very systematic analysis that
John and our colleague, Dylan Freedman,
who works with AI and machine learning,
did. They combed through thousands of
pages of these forum posts and looked at
specific kinds of grammatical errors,
specific writing ticks, not just one,
but a bunch of things. And they used
three separate methods of analysis, and
all three came to the same conclusion,
which is that you were the number one
match out of all of these people in this
community to the writings of Satoshi.
Right. And we've gotten actually
feedback, Dylan and I have gotten
feedback today from readers. Some
readers find the hyphenation analysis
the most compelling and by far the
closest match to these hyphenation error
patterns was you. What do you make of
that, Adam? I mean, I guess it's
coincidence unless there is some kind of
link in the sense that he did read my
paper. Some of the things we're talking
about hyphenating are
sort of niche technical terms like proof
of work, and so there there are probably
likely to be similarities because
for somebody to be,
you know, fluent in cryptography and the
technology, they would have read certain
things, learned certain programming
languages or ideas, and so have some
common technical language, let's say. I
mean, you're basically saying that this
is coincidence, but I have to say it
does feel as though what John has done
goes much further than that. I mean, it
is really robust,
the level of, again, multiple analyses
that he presents in the story. Um, yeah,
I mean,
I can only tell you that it it's not me.
People who know me are pretty convinced
that's the case. Okay, I just want to
kind of finish this part of the
conversation by just saying, John, I'm
gathering that nothing he has said has
changed your mind. No. Okay. Well, it
seems like we're going to just have to
agree to disagree.
Adam, can I get you to address something
that you said today on X in response to
John's article coming out, which is
that, and I'm quoting you here, "I also
don't know who Satoshi is, and I think
it's good for Bitcoin that this is the
case." In the broadest sense, why do you
think it's good that the founder of
Bitcoin remain anonymous? Yeah, so I
think it's more about the perception of
Bitcoin. What do you mean by that? Well,
there's Bitcoin as a digital commodity,
as a discovery rather than invention.
And systems that have a vocal founder,
then it gets viewed as more a company's
product or a project, whereas Bitcoin is
actually very chaotic and decentralized.
You know, there are hundreds of
individual developers, thousands of
companies, different service providers,
any one of which or dozens of which
could leave and rejoin, and it wouldn't
have much bearing on Bitcoin. So, from
the point of view of both Bitcoin being
seen as a neutral digital commodity and
it being viewed as a discovery rather
than a company with a CEO. That's a
virtue in your mind. Yeah, I think that
is actually beneficial. And, of course,
the myth and the backstory that there
was this founder and he left in 2011 or
2012 is also a fascinating mythology
behind Bitcoin, and that's why we're
having this conversation, right? So, I
do understand.
Adam, what about the public's interest
in knowing who Satoshi is so that they
know what his motivations were? Isn't
that a legitimate public interest given
how big a deal Bitcoin has become, how
many things it's altered in our modern
world? You know, this person invented
something that we have to reckon with
every day, whether we like it or not.
Isn't there a public interest there in
knowing what the motivations were for
creating this? I mean, I think not
necessarily [clears throat]
in the sense that once the technology
exists, it takes on an inertia of its
own. Satoshi had one thing in mind,
but, you know, ultimately, if humanity
[snorts] is using Bitcoin, the people
who use it, the economic actors, decide
what's valuable to them. So, [snorts]
you know, I think at this point the
ideas of the person who put it together
and implemented it are sort of
secondary, right? It's now a market
phenomena.
And it, you know, you could say that
about the internet, too, right? You
know, there were some early pioneers
behind email protocols and TCP/IP, and
that came out of a particular use case
in probably military applications
initially, but that's not what the
internet's about today. It's like a
general fabric for
huge [snorts] amounts of society,
companies and individuals and
conferences like what's happening right
now. You're saying it's okay for Satoshi
to wipe his hands of the consequences of
his invention. And and the consequences
have not all been positive.
I mean, I think that
I rather like the consequences of
Bitcoin, but, you know, that I have a
kind of cyber-punk mindset, a kind of
anarcho-capitalist, very free market
viewpoint.
You know, we should say now that if you
are Satoshi, it is in your personal
interest also to conceal that. You're
about to take a company public and that
requires you to do all of these
disclosures to the SEC. If the SEC were
to find out that you had hid the fact
that you have 70 plus billion dollars in
Bitcoin, which Satoshi has, I mean, that
would be a big problem for you, right?
Um, hadn't really thought about that,
but I mean, that could be another piece
of evidence. Looking at the filings and
seeing that there's no such disclosure
there. Well, I mean, you have to make
the disclosure in order for it to be in
there.
>> [snorts]
>> Right, but I mean, hiding a disclosure
is
not good, right? The SEC filings are
legal documents that are carefully
reviewed by
securities lawyers and so on, right?
Okay. Can I ask Adam, do you think the
public will believe you when you say
that you are not Satoshi?
Uh, it's all
People sometimes, I mean, there's a lot
of memes on the internet and the Bitcoin
is love their memes and
one of the memes is a Monty Python
sketch where
the crowd decides this fellow is
a religious figurehead and he denies it
and every denial they just say, "Oh, you
know, that person would deny it." And
there's no shaking their conviction. So,
at some point, you know, you can say the
truth, you can explain
why or not, but people are going to draw
their own conclusions.
>> [music]
>> Well, Adam,
>> John, thank you both so much for being
here. Thank you for having me and
>> [music]
>> thank you, Adam, for coming on the show
and speaking to us at such length. Yeah,
thank you both.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Here's what else you need to know today.
A new wave of attacks tested [music] the
US and Iran's day-old ceasefire, which
was strained by confusion over the
deal's terms [music] and over the status
of the Strait of Hormuz.
One of the biggest points of contention
was whether the truce applied to
Lebanon.
>> [music]
>> The Israeli military said it carried out
some of its largest strikes in Lebanon
yet, killing more than 180 people there.
President Trump and Israeli Prime
Minister [music] Benjamin Netanyahu said
the ceasefire did not include Lebanon,
but Iran and Pakistan, which helped
mediate the truce,
>> [music]
>> said it did.
On Wednesday afternoon, Iran said the
Strait of Hormuz, which Trump demanded
be kept open as part of the ceasefire
deal,
>> [music]
>> had been fully closed and that some
tankers had been turned away.
Today's episode was produced by Stella
Tan, [music] Jack Dissadoro, and Nina
Feldman. It was edited by Paige Cowett
and Rob Zipko and contains music by Dan
Powell, [music] Pat McCusker, and Rowan
Nemi stow.
Our theme music is by Wonderly.
This episode [music] was engineered by
Alyssa Moxley.
>> [music]
>> That's it for The Daily. [music] I'm
Natalie Kitroeff. See you tomorrow.